All right guys so in this video we're going to start to work on the articles down below.
Basically our grid of articles and this quite a bit of each team l here quite a bit of mark up.
I'm actually going to just make this a little bigger so that you guys can read it better.
So under the header let's say Home Articles and we're gonna give.
This is gonna be a section so going to use the H HTML5 section tag and we're gonna give an an idea of
home dash articles and we're also gonna create padding classes so I'm gonna give it a class of P Y dash
to just to give it some padding on the top and bottom and the way that these are gonna be set up is
they're gonna be a little different.
So for instance this first one we're actually going to make this a grid within a grid so that we can
align it this way and then some of these will be adding a background color to some of them will have
an image on the top.
Some on the bottom so they'll be formatted a little bit differently.
So let's go.
Let's create the first one which is this one here which again is gonna be a grid within a grid.
So actually let's put our heading for us.
We're going to say Editor's Picks or editor picks and then what I want to do is create a container for
our grid.
So we're gonna call this one.
Let's call it articles or articles excuse me articles container.
And then each one is gonna be an article tag and I'm gonna give it a class of card.
So card is something you see often in frameworks like bootstrap where you have maybe a background like
this and some padding just something to put your content into rather than just having the text and images
just you know just just floating there with just the background.
Sometimes you'll have a like a colored heading like maybe a background with a heading something like
that but yeah.
That's going to.
Those are gonna be cards so each one of these articles will have a class of card and we're going to
put our first image in which is going to be in I am G slash articles and it's gonna be E.A. one.
So this is an entertainment article and this this right here this is going to ax.
This is gonna be a grid container and then this will be if one grid item in them will have a div that
will have the rest of the stuff inside of it.
So for instance the category which is going to be have a class of category dash he and t say entertainment.
And underneath that we're gonna have our H 3 R title which is gonna be a link and it's gonna go to Article
dot HDMI all we'll just say launch five for the article for the title rather and then under the h three
we're going to put a paragraph and we'll say Lorem 20 thing is a 20 looks like 20 so that's gonna be
our first one and if I save it and we take a look it's the image is gonna be giant because the images
have have a width of one hundred percent.
Now one thing I forgot is the main container you see how this is up against the edge like this because
we didn't add the container class so right under the section I'm going to have a class of container
that's going to wrap around everything so we just want to take all this and cut that out and put that
inside the container and save.
And now you can see that there's some padding on the edge here and it also line it to the middle.
OK.
So let's add our next article I'm just going to copy this.
Now this one is not going to be its own grid.
So we're talking about this right here.
So we don't need to have this extra div.
So we're gonna take that out widget and we're not even going to have an image we can take that out and
that should be good.
Let's move this back a little bit in the category is sports.
So we're gonna change this to sports and change this to sports and we'll leave the title in the paragraph.
All right.
So if we take a look we should have something like this.
The next one is gonna be similar to what we just did only it's gonna have an image up top.
So let's copy the one we just did and paste that in and just fix this.
So this one is gonna have an image right above the categories so let's say image and it's gonna be I
am G slash
articles slash and it's what is it technology so we want tech one dot j peg and we'll change this to
tech and this to technology.
OK we'll save that.
Make sure the image shows up and then we have the content under it.
So the next one is similar except the image is at the bottom.
So I'll just copy what we just did and Let's paste that in and we're just going to take the image is
actually going to be let's see what is this sports.
So this is gonna be sports one dot j peg but we're gonna move this to the bottom of the article so right
under the paragraph and we'll change the category change.
This right here.
Good.
And then the next one is this one here which is basically the same thing is this just different image.
So we'll go ahead and copy that one with the tech one image and paste that annual changes to tech to
k.
Next one is gonna be this which doesn't have an image or anything like that so I'll copy the one that
we did with no image which is the second one.
So this is the first one this is the second one and we'll put that right here
OK but this is gonna be it is sports.
So we can actually leave that.
And then this last one is similar to the first one in that it's gonna be a grid within a grid.
So let's let's copy the first one
I know this is a lot of markup and hopefully it's not too confusing if you want you can just get the
finished files from the first lecture of this section and you can just copy this whole thing.
I sure probably should have said that before but yeah this is gonna be E.A. to only I want to take the
image and put it after the div.
So put the image right here.
All right.
So we'll save that.
And if we take a look it's going to look pretty bad it's just all you know all in one line because we
haven't added the grid yet.
So let's jump into style CSX and let's start to add our grid actually first thing I'm going to do is
add the utility classes like the card class so see we'll go right below the buttons and say.
Card is going gonna give this a background of whites and let's do a padding of one room.
So we save that.
Now you can see that each one of these articles they're all wrapped in the in the white container are
white card.
So I think yeah we'll just we'll do leave that for now and then we'll go back down and let us style
our Home Articles.
OK.
So we have an I.D. of home dash articles and remember we have a class in there called articles dash
container and that's what we want to set the grid on.
That's going to be the grid parent.
OK.
And then as far as the template columns we're gonna say grid template columns and we're gonna set repeat
and we want 3 1 F.
So if I save that automatically they're going to set to three in a row.
Now I want some spacing in between so let's add a grid gap of one room.
Whoops.
Yeah.
There we go.
OK.
So now we have some spacing and I mean that's that's not too bad itself but what I do want to do is
like I said turn this one into its own grid and then span it over one.
OK.
Just to just to give it a little a little bit of style so we can grab on to this without giving it a
special class by using first child.
OK.
Same with the last.
We want this to do the same thing.
So what I'll do is I'll go down and say home dash articles
Articles.
Dash.
Container.
Now I want the first article right.
So I could say article first.
Dash child I could do that.
But what if I.
What if I wanted to change it to a div or something I think I want to.
I'm going to make this a little more flexible and I'm gonna use an asterisk here meaning any any element
it doesn't have to be an article but I only want D the direct child so I'm gonna use the the greater
than OK.
So we're just saying any anything whatever this is even if even if this was changed to a div we're still
going to target this first element here and only this first one.
So let's add.
Display grid to this and we're gonna add grid dash template columns and we just want to repeat.
We want to repeat to 1 F far so we want basically the image is gonna be in one half hour and then the
text the div with the text will be in one half hour and let's just add a grid dash gap and let's say
1 REM and save that.
All right.
So what we've done here is we've turned this item the first child into a grid and we've set it to repeat
to 1 FDR with some grid gap.
Now obviously this doesn't look very good.
What we need to do is span this across.
K We wanted to take up two columns so what I can do is let's see here we'll just put it right in here
so we'll say grid dash column from one we want to span it to a cross so we'll save.
And then we go.
It spans across.
Now the images is kind of up too far.
I want to basically center it.
So I'm going to add a line dash items to the center.
We'll save that.
Now the images in the center.
OK.
So I want to do basically the same thing to the last.
So I'm going to copy this whole thing right here and just put a comma paste that in and change this
to last child so that we can target that and save.
And now you can see we get the same thing now.
Actually you know what we need to right now we're saying start at 1 and span 2.
And that's not what we want because we wanted to start here so we actually wanted to start at two and
span two.
So we're gonna have to also just grab this go down here and take this and say we want to start it too
in span too.
So we'll go ahead and save that.
And there he goes.
Now it's put in this place all right.
So that looks pretty good.
Last thing we want to add our background classes and our padding classes.
So this should have background dark.
This should have background primary.
And we also need that the pattern classes because this right here is just too close to to the showcase.
Remember we added the P Y to class.
So let's go on top and we're going to add in all the background classes which we're gonna have three.
So let's say big dash dark and we're gonna do a background we'll use our our dark color variable and
let's do a color white.
All right.
And let's go ahead and just go and copy this down twice.
Let's change this to primary and change this to secondary OK and then we'll add our pattern classes.
So I'm gonna do P Why do class P Y dash one and 4 padding for this I'm going to do one point five.
Yeah one point five REM.
Top and bottom.
Copy this down a couple times.
This one will be two.
And then this one will be three and we'll change these to two and three and then I'm going to copy this
and we want we also want pattern classes for all around which will be p1 p2 and P3 and then we'll just
take the 0 away which will make it padding all the way around.
OK so those are padding classes.
Let's save that.
Now we haven't added the big color yet you can see the padding is now there.
But let's add our big color classes or BGP backgrounds.
So let's see we have the first one which is right here the second one I'm going to give a class of BJP
dash dark save it and c that didn't work why didn't network Class B G.
Dark
because of the card
dark color background.
P.G. dark
article class P.G. dark.
I'm not sure why that's why I put it.
I put on this one.
That's the wrong one.
It's gonna be right here.
There we go.
OK.
So we have an issue here the heading is not white.
Even though we put color white we have to specifically target the heading or if there's any links.
We also want to set those to white.
So actually what I'm going to do is just create a bunch of styles here we'll do big dark each one
BFG.
Dark.
Sorry about the length of this video guys we're just doing quite a bit here.
That should be primary.
Nope.
Fiji dark.
We're doing H.
Let's just do H1 H2 and H3.
And I know we only have an 3 but we might use BFG dark somewhere where there's an H1 or an H two as
well so I I'm just trying to make this scalable basically and then let's take care of any links.
So BGP dark a and then let's take care of the primary and secondary background so paste this in let's
do primary paste that in
secondary by the way I'm using controlled D to select the next one down and then we'll just set that
to color white and save.
And now you can see that this the heading is white.
So I want this one right here to have the BJP primary so let's go back.
So it's the set.
It's the second to last one.
So this is the last article let's go to the second to last and say BJP dash primary and save there go
so that looks pretty good.
And obviously it's not responsive yet.
Well we're going to get to that probably last but I think that looks decent.
So in the next video what I want to do is take care of the footer which we're also gonna use the grid
in we're basically gonna have five items.
So one two three four and then the fifth one we're gonna span all the way across like that.
All right so I'll see you in the next video.